# CountryBranding
### Authors: Claire Mahon and Grace Kelner
DS4420 Final Project Implementing Machine Learning Methods to predict country rating attributes and trends over time. 

### I. Introduction and Literature Review
  
  In the age of globalization, tourism and international exposure have dramatically increased. Since 2000, global travel has more than doubled (Herre and Samborska, 2023), enhancing how countries are perceived by outsiders. National reputation can be shaped by factors such as happiness, power, and infrastructure, which can significantly influence the perceived power of a country. In this project, we aim to explore how various social, political, and economic factors correlate with a country’s overall ranking using machine learning techniques. We developed two models: a multilayer perceptron to predict a country’s overall ranking based on perceived features, and a time series model to forecast rankings over time. Our goal is to identify countries with declining overall ranking trajectories and recommend which factors they should prioritize to increase their perceived rankings in the coming years.
  
  Understanding how a country is perceived by others has been widely studied in previous years.  The Anholt-Ipsos Nation Brands Index (NBI) is an example of another measure of national reputation, which captures perceptions of a country’s attributes such as beauty, safety, and innovation (Ipsos).  While the NBI focuses primarily on just the national image through public perception surveys, our project uses data like this to then be able to build prediction models off of the survey’s collected data.  The NBI does provide some insight into what drives positive perception of a country which aligns with our project’s aim to determine which factors countries should prioritize to rise in the rankings.  However, by additionally focusing on identifying historical trends and future shifts that may occur, our model is more conducive to a recommendation analysis.
  
  Another contribution of work to this topic is Fetscherin’s (2010) Country Brand Strength Index. Unlike perception based models like the Nation Brands Index spoken about above, the Country Brand Strength Index (CBSI) uses objective data sources to create a score reflecting a country’s brand performance.  While both the CBSI and our project try to understand a country’s national standing, the methods differ significantly. Rather than only looking at the current standing of a country, we aim to predict how the country’s standing may change in the future, resulting in a more dynamic model that can interpret the relationships between different attributes.  Our project also focuses on perceptions rather than objective performance like CBSI, which helps to identify countries at risk of declining in perception over time, so we can suggest actionable factors that they should prioritize to improve international brand. 

### II. ML Methodology and Data Collection
  
  Seeking to examine a nation’s worth beyond hard metrics, our project aims to predict what perceived factors are most important to a country’s overall ranking.  We built this model based on data collected from the U.S. News and World Report study in collaboration with the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.  A set of 73 country attributes were identified and presented in a survey sent to more than 17,000 people across the globe who assessed whether they associated an attribute with a nation. Although the overall rankings of each country are published yearly by the U.S. News, our dataset with the raw scores of each of the attributes was obtained from a Northeastern professor who has been involved in publishing the results.
  
  To determine the overall rank of a country, these 73 different attributes were sorted into 10 thematic sub-rankings that were weighted based on a country’s  GDP PPP, which then factored into an overall ranking for each country. Some of these factors and their groupings can be seen in the chart to the right, with some notable attributes being a good job market, cultural influence, and quality of life.
  
  There were a total of 87 countries included in 2023 U.S. News Best Countries Ranking along with 8 years of data.  For these countries to be included, they had to meet 4 main criteria: Top 100 country in terms of GDP in any year from 2017-2021, Top 100 country in terms of foreign direct investment between 2017 and 2021, Top 100 country in terms of tourism between those same years, and Top 150 country in the UN’s Human Development Index in any of those years.  These 87 countries that were included in the study account for 95% of the world’s GDP and almost 80% of the world’s global population.
  
  For our multilayer perceptron neural network, we selected the most recent year of data (2023) for our prediction. We normalized our data with caret, and coded our model using R’s neuralnet package (nnet introduced in class R code did not allow for multiple hidden layers). We utilized 2 hidden layers, one with 128 neurons and the second with 64 neurons. We utilized the ReLU activation function as our output for the model is overall rank (manually coded as neuralnet does not have this functionality built in). See architecture diagram to the left for our MLP.  
  
  For our time series forecasting model, we first wanted to ensure that we had at least eight years of historical ranking data for each of the countries within our dataset to optimize the forecasted ranking predictions.  Rather than using the built in python packages such as AutoReg, we implemented this model by hand.  We then split up each country and fit the model separately to each one in order to capture country specific trends over time.  Given the limited amount of data (2016-2023), we were unable to generate PACF plots, so we opted to focus on implementing an AR(p) model, therefore we could generate an ACF plot to help us determine the p value.  We observed that only the immediate previous years ranking appeared to be influential to the future rankings of a country.  Therefore, we chose to build out an AR(p) model with a p value of 1, which assumes that each year's rank depends primarily on the rank from the previous year.

### III. ML Results and Interpretation
  
  After building out MLP and time series models, we were able to determine an accurate predictive model for a country’s overall rank, given their scores for other features. Our MLP accurately predicted a country’s overall rank with a training set MSE of 0.0001186001 and a test MSE of 0.01677876. While the higher test error indicates a possibility of overfitting in the model, our results were still reasonable and as seen in the graph to the left, accurately predicted the rank of a good number of countries. Comparing the MLP and time series models, we found that the MLP offered superior predictive accuracy for a given year’s ranking based on perceptual attributes. In contrast, the time series model was more useful for trend forecasting and identifying shifts over time. We utilized our time series model to identify countries' future predicted ranks. The results and accuracy varied by country, with some being very accurate while others failed to identify more nuanced spikes and falls in the data. For example Mexico had very strong test results from the time series, with an MAE: 0.41 and RMSE: 0.44. Notably, countries with more volatile rank histories (e.g., Guatemala) showed higher prediction errors, likely due to irregular trends or external factors not captured in the dataset (Guatemala Results- Test MAE: 8.84, Test RMSE: 8.84). While this dataset is based on objective rankings, we would expect that recent political, environmental and economic events in a country would contribute to overall rankings, whether or not they are accounted for directly. Given that the top ranked countries in 2023 were Switzerland, Canada, and Sweden which are generally seen as more neutral and peaceful countries around the world with relatively low changes to their political, economic, and environmental standings. On the other hand, the bottom ranked countries, Lebanon, Belarus, and Iran have all had more recent instances of economic, political, and environmental instability. Despite these varying issues that could be contributing to the overall rank of countries from year to year, we found our time series model to be relatively accurate in predicting the overall rise, fall, or stabilization of a country's rank. Given these trends in the predictions, we can identify countries which have a forecasted rank decline. For example, from our above plots we determined Bulgaria has experienced a sharp decline from their rank in 2016. Our model predicts their rank will continue to stay at its lower rank for future years. Similarly, Singapore showed a sharply rising and dropping rank, which is predicted to continue in future years. 
  
  To interpret the influence of different attributes on a country’s overall rank, we conducted a Pearson correlation analysis between different attributes that were measured in the study in regards to the overall ranking that a specific country received. We can conclude that perceptions of a good job market, cultural influence, and quality of life are all very positively correlated to a strong overall ranking. On the other hand, if a country is perceived as unapproachable, has cheap manufacturing costs, and is deemed as religious, this country is likely to receive a worse overall ranking.
  
  We can then use our findings from this feature importance graph to determine which features a country should focus on improving to lead to a higher overall ranking. We utilized our time series model to determine which countries we wanted to focus on.  As aforementioned, Bulgaria had a drastic decrease and is projected to stay at its lower rank while Singapore has been jumping around a couple of different rankings and is projected to continue this path. To stabilize these rankings, we suggest that these countries look to better their job market, improve the perception of cultural influence and quality of life, and be better connected to the rest of the world. Countries additionally could seek to reduce their advertising on factors that contribute negatively to overall rank. 
  
  We tested the sensitivity of our MLP predictive model to individual feature changes. In practice, we manually increased the attribute scores for Bulgaria for ‘A good job market’ and ‘Quality of Life’ by 20% to predict how much a rise in rank could be expected over the current rankings. The rank went from 61 to 60 overall. Though this is a small jump, the methodology could be applied to help countries strategically advertise certain attributes to improve their country’s overall global rank. 

### IV. Conclusions and Future Work
  
  In this project, we explored the relationship between perceptions of national attributes and overall country rankings using machine learning techniques. After conducting our robust analysis, we were able to demonstrate that both a multilayer perceptron model and a time series autoregressive model can effectively capture components of a country’s global reputation. The MLP accurately predicts a country’s overall rank based on a snapshot of conceptual attributes, while the time series model offers insights into the future trajectory of a country’s rank. Together these models better contribute to understanding global country perceptions.
  
  Our results revealed several consistent patterns. Countries perceived to offer a good job market, cultural influence, and quality of life are all very positively correlated to a good overall ranking.  On the other hand, if a country is perceived as unapproachable, religious, and has cheap manufacturing costs, it is likely that the country would receive a worse overall ranking.  In summary, if a country wants to rise in the rankings, they should focus on improving the positively correlated attributes, and it is likely that they will then slowly start to improve their ranking.
  
  After reflecting on our methods, we do believe that the chosen methods were the proper way to reach our problem statement.  The one issue that we ran into was limited data to use in the time series model.  With only eight years of information available to us, we had to make some assumptions that may or may not have been accurate.  Luckily, this drawback will resolve itself over time as the study continues to publish overall rankings for the best countries.
  
  In the future, we hope to be able to use this information to help countries determine where they need to focus their attention when branding in the hospitality and tourism industry.  As the years progress, we believe that the accuracy of these models will continue to improve as we gain more data and can better predict how a country's ranking may fluctuate over time with more data points.

